For the software component of the project, the plan is to be able to detect flowers from a camera on the drone and estimate the distance from the drone to the flower. Recently, some research has been conducted on the best approach for the flower detection component.

Initially, because of the deep learning experience the team has, the approach of convolutional neural networks for object detection was considered. The task of object detection is much more complex than just image classification, so the object detection neural networks used are often much more complex. Some neural networks that are considered were YOLO (You Only Look Once), SSD (Single Shot Detector), and faster-RCNN. These models are considered more 'real-time' with low latency, especially when using a GPU.

However, several issues came up during discussion. Firstly, since the station connected to the drone should be portable, it typically had to be a laptop. This meant limited computing power relative to a desktop, so solutions that may have been 'real-time' with a GPU may end up taking much longer. This could cause problems in the control loop movements of the drone rely on the results of the processing. The second issue is that to train a convolutional neural network for object detection, a large amount of data is required, and the data needs to be labeled with the bounding boxes of the relevant objects. This would be very difficult to manually perform for our task.

Because of these difficulties, different approaches were researched, such as colour segmentation and shape matching. Another possible approach is to use OpenCV's cascade classifier, which have been commonly used for face recognition. For the next week, the objective is to test these different approaches in their ability to detect flowers, with emphasis on low latency.

### Links:

[Object Recognition with Deep Learning](https://machinelearningmastery.com/object-recognition-with-deep-learning/)

[Cascade Classifier Training](https://docs.opencv.org/trunk/dc/d88/tutorial_traincascade.html)

